docs/source.rst, before:

Source Guide
============

.. todo:: There's a lot more to it than this, but then we begin to
          duplicate content from individual organization's landing
          pages and Micah's Intercept article. For example: what
          computer should you use? what network should you be on? etc.


Choose who to submit to
-----------------------

Each SecureDrop instance is totally independent, and submissions to that instance are only available to journalists associated with that organization.

All organizations have a *landing page* that provides their own organization-specific recommendations for using SecureDrop. We encourage you to consider an organization's landing page before submitting to them.

Most organizations make their landing page prominently accessible from their main website's homepage. You can also find an incomplete list of organizations accepting submissions through SecureDrop on the `SecureDrop Directory`_ maintained by Freedom of the Press Foundation.

.. _`SecureDrop Directory`: https://securedrop.org/directory


Get the Tor Browser
-------------------

.. todo:: There is a classic chicken and egg problem with encouraging
   sources to use Tor. If their network traffic is already being
   monitored (e.g. at their workplace by the IT department, at their
   home by their ISP, anywhere by FVEY...), and they don't know to use
   Tor from the start (like Snowden did), then their initial interest
   in using SecureDrop might be enough to make them a target. One
   partial mitigation might be to make this section the first section
   in this document, and encourage them to "stop, drop, and Tor
   Browser" before continuing or clicking any more links.

Each SecureDrop instance has a publicly available *Source Interface*: a website where sources can create anonymous accounts, submit files and messages, and check back for replies.

Each Source Interface is only available as a *Tor Hidden Service*, which is a special type of website with an address ending in ".onion" that is only accessible through Tor. Tor is an anonymizing network that makes it difficult for anybody observing the network to associate a user's identity (e.g. their computer's IP address) with their activity (e.g. uploading information to SecureDrop).

The easiest and most secure way to use Tor is to download the Tor Browser from the `Tor Project website`_. The Tor Browser is a modified version of the Firefox web browser designed to protect your security and anonymity while using Tor.

Once you have the Tor Browser, launch it and enter the ".onion" address for the Source Interface of the organization that you wish to submit to. You can find this address on the organization's landing page, or listed on the SecureDrop Directory.

While using the Tor Browser on your personal computer helps hide your activity on the network, it leaves traces (of its own installation) on your local machine. For even more deniability, we recommend booting into a live system such as `Tails`_ for a higher level of security. Tails is specifically designed to run on your computer without leaving traces of your activity, and automatically routes all of your Internet browsing through Tor so you can easily access SecureDrop safely.

.. _`Tor Project website`: https://www.torproject.org/
.. _`Tails`: https://tails.boum.org/


Making your First Submission
----------------------------

Open the Tor Browser and navigate to the .onion address for the SecureDrop
Source Interface you wish to make a submission to. The page should look similar
to the screenshot below, although it will probably have a logo specific to the
organization you are submitting to.

|Source Interface with Javascript Disabled|

If this is the first time you're using the Tor browser, it's likely that you
have Javascript enabled and that the Security Slider that Tor browser provides
is set to "Low". If you do, there will be a purple warning banner at the top of
the page that encourages you to disable Javascript and turn up the Security
Slider to "High":

|Source Interface Security Slider Warning|

Click the **Learn how to set it to high** link in the warning banner and a
message bubble will pop up explaining how to disable Javascript and turn up the
Slider:

|Fix Javascript warning|

Follow the instructions and the page should refresh automatically. Note
that this will change the slider and disable Javascript for every page in your
Tor Browser, and this setting will persist across browser sessions.

|Security Slider|

The page should look similar to the screenshot below. If this is the first
time you are using SecureDrop, click the **Submit Documents** button.

|Source Interface with Javascript Disabled|

You should now see a screen that shows the unique codename that SecureDrop has
generated for you. Note that your codename will not be the same as the codename
shown in the image below. It is extremely important that you both remember this
code and keep it secret. After submitting documents, you will need to provide
this code to log back in and check for responses.

The best way to protect your codename is to memorize it. If you cannot memorize
it right away, we recommend writing it down and keeping it in a safe place at
first, and gradually working to memorize it over time. Once you have memorized
it, you should destroy the written copy.

.. tip:: For detailed recommendations on best practices for managing your
   passphrase, check out :doc:`passphrase_best_practices`.

Once you have generated a codename and put it somewhere safe, click
**Continue**.

|Memorizing your codename|

You will next be brought to the submission interface, where you may
upload a document, enter a message to send to journalists, or both. You
can only submit one document at a time, so you may want to combine
several files into a zip archive if necessary. The maximum submission
size is currently 500MB. If the files you wish to upload are over that
limit, we recommend that you send a message to the journalist explaining
this, so that they can set up another method for transferring the
documents.

When your submission is ready, click **Submit**.

|Submit a document|

After clicking **Submit**, a confirmation page should appear, showing
that your message and/or documents have been sent successfully. On this
page you can make another submission or view responses to your previous
messages.

|Confirmation page|

Once you are finished submitting documents, be certain you have saved your
secret codename and then click the **Exit** button:

|Logout|

The final step to clearing your session is to restart Tor Browser for
optimal security. You can either close the browser entirely or follow
the notification: click on the Tor onion in the toolbar, click
**New Identity** and then click **Yes** in the dialog box that appears
to confirm you'd like to restart Tor Browser:

|Restart TBB|


Continuing the Conversation
---------------------------

If you have already submitted a document and would like to check for
responses, click the **Check for a Response** button on the media
organization's SecureDrop homepage.

|Source Interface with Javascript Disabled|

The next page will ask for your secret codename. Enter it and click
**Continue**.

|Check for response|

If a journalist has responded, their message will appear on the
next page. This page also allows you to upload another document or send
another message to the journalist. Before leaving the page, you should
delete any replies. In the unlikely event that someone learns
your codename, this will keep your identity secret as no one will be
able to see the previous correspondences you had with journalists.

|Check for a reply|

After you delete the message from the journalist, make sure you see the
below message.

|Delete received messages|

If the server experiences a large number of new sources signing up at
once and is overloaded with submissions, the journalist will flag your
message on their end and you will see the message below. They can't
write a reply to you until you've seen this message for security
reasons. This will only happen the first time a journalist replies and
with subsequent replies you will skip this step. Click **Refresh** or
log in again to see if a journalist has responded.

|Check for an initial response|

Repeat these steps to continue communicating with the journalist.


.. |Source Interface Security Slider Warning| image:: images/manual/securedrop-security-slider-warning.png
.. |Security Slider| image:: images/manual/security-slider-high.png
.. |Fix Javascript warning| image:: images/manual/source-turn-slider-to-high.png
.. |Source Interface with Javascript Disabled|
  image:: images/manual/screenshots/source-index.png
.. |Memorizing your codename|
  image:: images/manual/screenshots/source-generate.png
.. |Submit a document|
  image:: images/manual/screenshots/source-submission_entered_text.png
.. |Confirmation page|
  image:: images/manual/screenshots/source-lookup.png
.. |Logout|
  image:: images/manual/screenshots/source-logout_flashed_message.png
.. |Restart TBB| image:: images/manual/restart-tor-browser.png
.. |Check for response|
  image:: images/manual/screenshots/source-enter-codename-in-login.png
.. |Check for a reply|
  image:: images/manual/screenshots/source-checks_for_reply.png
.. |Delete received messages|
  image:: images/manual/screenshots/source-deletes_reply.png
.. |Check for an initial response|
  image:: images/manual/screenshots/source-flagged.png

Commit message:

docs: instructions to find alternate Tor Browser downloads

docs/source.rst, after:

Source Guide
============

.. todo:: There's a lot more to it than this, but then we begin to
          duplicate content from individual organization's landing
          pages and Micah's Intercept article. For example: what
          computer should you use? what network should you be on? etc.


Choose who to submit to
-----------------------

Each SecureDrop instance is totally independent, and submissions to that instance are only available to journalists associated with that organization.

All organizations have a *landing page* that provides their own organization-specific recommendations for using SecureDrop. We encourage you to consider an organization's landing page before submitting to them.

Most organizations make their landing page prominently accessible from their main website's homepage. You can also find an incomplete list of organizations accepting submissions through SecureDrop on the `SecureDrop Directory`_ maintained by Freedom of the Press Foundation.

.. _`SecureDrop Directory`: https://securedrop.org/directory


Get the Tor Browser
-------------------

Each SecureDrop instance has a publicly available *Source Interface*: a website where sources can create anonymous accounts, submit files and messages, and check back for replies.

Each Source Interface is only available as a *Tor Hidden Service*, which is a special type of website with an address ending in ".onion" that is only accessible through Tor. Tor is an anonymizing network that makes it difficult for anybody observing the network to associate a user's identity (e.g. their computer's IP address) with their activity (e.g. uploading information to SecureDrop).

The easiest and most secure way to use Tor is to download the Tor Browser from the `Tor Project website`_. The Tor Browser is a modified version of the Firefox web browser designed to protect your security and anonymity while using Tor. If there is a chance that downloading the Tor Browser raises suspicion, you have a few alternatives.

* If your mail provider is less likely to be monitored, you can send a mail to gettor@torproject.org and a bot will answer with instructions
* If you routinely use GitHub, you can use it to `download the Tor Browser <https://github.com/TheTorProject/gettorbrowser>`__

Once you have the Tor Browser, launch it and enter the ".onion" address for the Source Interface of the organization that you wish to submit to. You can find this address on the organization's landing page, or listed on the SecureDrop Directory.

While using the Tor Browser on your personal computer helps hide your activity on the network, it leaves traces (of its own installation) on your local machine. For even more deniability, we recommend booting into a live system such as `Tails`_ for a higher level of security. Tails is specifically designed to run on your computer without leaving traces of your activity, and automatically routes all of your Internet browsing through Tor so you can easily access SecureDrop safely.

.. _`Tor Project website`: https://www.torproject.org/
.. _`Tails`: https://tails.boum.org/


Making your First Submission
----------------------------

Open the Tor Browser and navigate to the .onion address for the SecureDrop
Source Interface you wish to make a submission to. The page should look similar
to the screenshot below, although it will probably have a logo specific to the
organization you are submitting to.

|Source Interface with Javascript Disabled|

If this is the first time you're using the Tor browser, it's likely that you
have Javascript enabled and that the Security Slider that Tor browser provides
is set to "Low". If you do, there will be a purple warning banner at the top of
the page that encourages you to disable Javascript and turn up the Security
Slider to "High":

|Source Interface Security Slider Warning|

Click the **Learn how to set it to high** link in the warning banner and a
message bubble will pop up explaining how to disable Javascript and turn up the
Slider:

|Fix Javascript warning|

Follow the instructions and the page should refresh automatically. Note
that this will change the slider and disable Javascript for every page in your
Tor Browser, and this setting will persist across browser sessions.

|Security Slider|

The page should look similar to the screenshot below. If this is the first
time you are using SecureDrop, click the **Submit Documents** button.

|Source Interface with Javascript Disabled|

You should now see a screen that shows the unique codename that SecureDrop has
generated for you. Note that your codename will not be the same as the codename
shown in the image below. It is extremely important that you both remember this
code and keep it secret. After submitting documents, you will need to provide
this code to log back in and check for responses.

The best way to protect your codename is to memorize it. If you cannot memorize
it right away, we recommend writing it down and keeping it in a safe place at
first, and gradually working to memorize it over time. Once you have memorized
it, you should destroy the written copy.

.. tip:: For detailed recommendations on best practices for managing your
   passphrase, check out :doc:`passphrase_best_practices`.

Once you have generated a codename and put it somewhere safe, click
**Continue**.

|Memorizing your codename|

You will next be brought to the submission interface, where you may
upload a document, enter a message to send to journalists, or both. You
can only submit one document at a time, so you may want to combine
several files into a zip archive if necessary. The maximum submission
size is currently 500MB. If the files you wish to upload are over that
limit, we recommend that you send a message to the journalist explaining
this, so that they can set up another method for transferring the
documents.

When your submission is ready, click **Submit**.

|Submit a document|

After clicking **Submit**, a confirmation page should appear, showing
that your message and/or documents have been sent successfully. On this
page you can make another submission or view responses to your previous
messages.

|Confirmation page|

Once you are finished submitting documents, be certain you have saved your
secret codename and then click the **Exit** button:

|Logout|

The final step to clearing your session is to restart Tor Browser for
optimal security. You can either close the browser entirely or follow
the notification: click on the Tor onion in the toolbar, click
**New Identity** and then click **Yes** in the dialog box that appears
to confirm you'd like to restart Tor Browser:

|Restart TBB|


Continuing the Conversation
---------------------------

If you have already submitted a document and would like to check for
responses, click the **Check for a Response** button on the media
organization's SecureDrop homepage.

|Source Interface with Javascript Disabled|

The next page will ask for your secret codename. Enter it and click
**Continue**.

|Check for response|

If a journalist has responded, their message will appear on the
next page. This page also allows you to upload another document or send
another message to the journalist. Before leaving the page, you should
delete any replies. In the unlikely event that someone learns
your codename, this will keep your identity secret as no one will be
able to see the previous correspondences you had with journalists.

|Check for a reply|

After you delete the message from the journalist, make sure you see the
below message.

|Delete received messages|

If the server experiences a large number of new sources signing up at
once and is overloaded with submissions, the journalist will flag your
message on their end and you will see the message below. They can't
write a reply to you until you've seen this message for security
reasons. This will only happen the first time a journalist replies and
with subsequent replies you will skip this step. Click **Refresh** or
log in again to see if a journalist has responded.

|Check for an initial response|

Repeat these steps to continue communicating with the journalist.


.. |Source Interface Security Slider Warning| image:: images/manual/securedrop-security-slider-warning.png
.. |Security Slider| image:: images/manual/security-slider-high.png
.. |Fix Javascript warning| image:: images/manual/source-turn-slider-to-high.png
.. |Source Interface with Javascript Disabled|
  image:: images/manual/screenshots/source-index.png
.. |Memorizing your codename|
  image:: images/manual/screenshots/source-generate.png
.. |Submit a document|
  image:: images/manual/screenshots/source-submission_entered_text.png
.. |Confirmation page|
  image:: images/manual/screenshots/source-lookup.png
.. |Logout|
  image:: images/manual/screenshots/source-logout_flashed_message.png
.. |Restart TBB| image:: images/manual/restart-tor-browser.png
.. |Check for response|
  image:: images/manual/screenshots/source-enter-codename-in-login.png
.. |Check for a reply|
  image:: images/manual/screenshots/source-checks_for_reply.png
.. |Delete received messages|
  image:: images/manual/screenshots/source-deletes_reply.png
.. |Check for an initial response|
  image:: images/manual/screenshots/source-flagged.png
