docs/test_the_installation.rst, before:

Test the Installation
=====================

Test connectivity
-----------------

SSH to both servers over Tor
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

On the *Admin Workstation*, you should be able to SSH to the App
Server and the *Monitor Server*. ::

   ssh app
   ssh mon

The SSH aliases should have been configured automatically by running
the ``./securedrop-admin tailsconfig`` tool. If you're unable to connect via aliases,
try using the verbose command format to troubleshoot: ::

   ssh <username>@<app .onion>
   ssh <username>@<mon .onion>

.. tip:: You can find the Onion URLs for SSH in ``app-ssh-aths`` and
         ``mon-ssh-aths`` inside the ``install_files/ansible-base`` directory.

Log in to both servers via TTY
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

All access to the SecureDrop servers should be performed over SSH from the
*Admin Workstation*. To aid in troubleshooting, physical logins via TTY are
supported, but require 2FA to be configured. See the :doc:`2FA setup guide
<google_authenticator>` for information how to enable console logins.

Test the 2FA functionality by connecting a keyboard and display to each server,
then login with the Admin username. You will need:

* sudo password for the Admin username
* TOTP code from a 2FA app such as Google Authenticator or FreeOTP

Confirm that logging in via TTY prompts for a 2FA code, and that the code
generated by your smartphone app permits logging in to an interactive shell.

Sanity-check the install
------------------------

On each server:

#. Check that you can execute privileged commands by running ``sudo su``.
#. Verify that you are booted into a grsec kernel: run ``uname -r``
   and verify that the name of the running kernel ends with ``-grsec``.
#. Check the current applied iptables rules with ``iptables-save``. It
   should output *approximately* 50 lines.
#. You should have received an email alert from OSSEC when it first
   started. If not, review our :doc:`OSSEC Alerts
   Guide <ossec_alerts>`.

On the *Application Server*:

#. Check the AppArmor status with ``sudo aa-status``. On a production
   instance all profiles should be in enforce mode.

Test the web interfaces
-----------------------

#. Make sure the Source Interface is available, and that you can make a
   submission.

   - Do this by opening the Tor Browser and navigating to the onion
     URL from ``app-source-ths``. Proceed through the codename
     generation (copy this down somewhere) and you can submit a
     message or attach any random unimportant file.
   - Usage of the Source Interface is covered by our :doc:`Source User
     Manual <source>`.

#. Test that you can access the Journalist Interface, and that you can log
   in as the admin user you just created.

   - Open the Tor Browser and navigate to the onion URL from
     app-journalist-aths. Enter your password and two-factor
     authentication code to log in.
   - If you have problems logging in to the Admin/Journalist Interface,
     SSH to the *Application Server* and restart the ntp daemon to synchronize
     the time: ``sudo service ntp restart``. Also check that your
     smartphone's time is accurate and set to network time in its
     device settings.

#. Test replying to the test submission.

   - While logged in as an admin, you can send a reply to the test
     source submission you made earlier.
   - Usage of the Journalist Interface is covered by our :doc:`Journalist
     User Manual <journalist>`.

#. Test that the source received the reply.

   - Within Tor Browser, navigate back to the app-source-ths URL and
     use your previous test source codename to log in (or reload the
     page if it's still open) and check that the reply you just made
     is present.

#. We highly recommend that you create persistent bookmarks for the
   Source and Journalist Interface addresses within Tor Browser.

#. Remove the test submissions you made prior to putting SecureDrop to
   real use. On the main Journalist Interface page, select all sources and
   click 'Delete selected'.

Once you've tested the installation and verified that everything is
working, see :doc:`How to Use SecureDrop <journalist>`.

Commit message:

Expand documentation for local ssh config
Doesn't cover all situations yet - particularly how to convert an
existing tor install to one over ssh.

docs/test_the_installation.rst, after:

Test the Installation
=====================

Test connectivity
-----------------

SSH to both servers over Tor
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Assuming you haven't enabled ssh over local network, SSH access will be
restricted to the tor network.

On the *Admin Workstation*, you should be able to SSH to the App
Server and the *Monitor Server*. ::

   ssh app
   ssh mon

The SSH aliases should have been configured automatically by running
the ``./securedrop-admin tailsconfig`` tool. If you're unable to connect via aliases,
try using the verbose command format to troubleshoot: ::

   ssh <username>@<app .onion>
   ssh <username>@<mon .onion>

.. tip:: You can find the Onion URLs for SSH in ``app-ssh-aths`` and
         ``mon-ssh-aths`` inside the ``install_files/ansible-base`` directory.

Log in to both servers via TTY
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

All access to the SecureDrop servers should be performed over SSH from the
*Admin Workstation*. To aid in troubleshooting, physical logins via TTY are
supported, but require 2FA to be configured. See the :doc:`2FA setup guide
<google_authenticator>` for information how to enable console logins.

Test the 2FA functionality by connecting a keyboard and display to each server,
then login with the Admin username. You will need:

* sudo password for the Admin username
* TOTP code from a 2FA app such as Google Authenticator or FreeOTP

Confirm that logging in via TTY prompts for a 2FA code, and that the code
generated by your smartphone app permits logging in to an interactive shell.

Sanity-check the install
------------------------

On each server:

#. Check that you can execute privileged commands by running ``sudo su``.
#. Verify that you are booted into a grsec kernel: run ``uname -r``
   and verify that the name of the running kernel ends with ``-grsec``.
#. Check the current applied iptables rules with ``iptables-save``. It
   should output *approximately* 50 lines.
#. You should have received an email alert from OSSEC when it first
   started. If not, review our :doc:`OSSEC Alerts
   Guide <ossec_alerts>`.

On the *Application Server*:

#. Check the AppArmor status with ``sudo aa-status``. On a production
   instance all profiles should be in enforce mode.

Test the web interfaces
-----------------------

#. Make sure the Source Interface is available, and that you can make a
   submission.

   - Do this by opening the Tor Browser and navigating to the onion
     URL from ``app-source-ths``. Proceed through the codename
     generation (copy this down somewhere) and you can submit a
     message or attach any random unimportant file.
   - Usage of the Source Interface is covered by our :doc:`Source User
     Manual <source>`.

#. Test that you can access the Journalist Interface, and that you can log
   in as the admin user you just created.

   - Open the Tor Browser and navigate to the onion URL from
     app-journalist-aths. Enter your password and two-factor
     authentication code to log in.
   - If you have problems logging in to the Admin/Journalist Interface,
     SSH to the *Application Server* and restart the ntp daemon to synchronize
     the time: ``sudo service ntp restart``. Also check that your
     smartphone's time is accurate and set to network time in its
     device settings.

#. Test replying to the test submission.

   - While logged in as an admin, you can send a reply to the test
     source submission you made earlier.
   - Usage of the Journalist Interface is covered by our :doc:`Journalist
     User Manual <journalist>`.

#. Test that the source received the reply.

   - Within Tor Browser, navigate back to the app-source-ths URL and
     use your previous test source codename to log in (or reload the
     page if it's still open) and check that the reply you just made
     is present.

#. We highly recommend that you create persistent bookmarks for the
   Source and Journalist Interface addresses within Tor Browser.

#. Remove the test submissions you made prior to putting SecureDrop to
   real use. On the main Journalist Interface page, select all sources and
   click 'Delete selected'.

Once you've tested the installation and verified that everything is
working, see :doc:`How to Use SecureDrop <journalist>`.
